# Video Game Sales Predictions

### 📊 Abstract:

In this project, I chose a dataset related to video games, as I have been a fan since childhood and it remains one of my main hobbies and breaks from my work activities to this day. Additionally, I would love to eventually work in roles related to video games.

My goal is to fulfill the requirements and objectives of the current Data Science course with a topic that I am passionate about and to obtain results that may bring me closer to my career goal of working with data and video games.

This project is based on data from the global gaming industry, which is the economic sector involved in the development, distribution, marketing, and sale of video games and associated hardware. It encompasses dozens of work disciplines and employs thousands of people around the world. In 2023, revenues in the gaming industry are estimated at $400 billion, surpassing the Gross Domestic Product of countries such as Denmark, Colombia, Chile, or Finland, and also exceeding revenues generated by the music or film industries.

### 📊 Business Context:

We work as a data-specialized company in the video game industry, called PlayData Solutions, which collaborates with clients in decision-making in the market.

By hiring the services of this company, it will be responsible, for example, for identifying market trends, player profiles, and niche opportunities, using models to predict sales, optimize inventory and launch strategy, define their audience, and design effective marketing campaigns. All through attractive and easy-to-understand visualizations to communicate the results effectively.

### 📊 Initial Objective:

To obtain information that allows recommending or directing economic investment in a video game genre that will be profitable in the future.

### 📊 Initial Hypotheses:

There is a significant relationship between the genre of a game and its success.
Game genres could influence their success in a way that can be predicted by specific characteristics of each genre.
There is a relationship between frequency and sales, meaning that genres with more games are the ones that sell the most.
The genre with the most sales also contains the most successful game(s).
Certain characteristics such as platform, publisher, and release year may significantly influence the sales of a game.
